---
type: post
category: plan
---

# 2022 Retrospective

One hell of a year. This year, the government finally gave up its 2-COVID policy. Russia is invading Ukraine, and I just realized most Chinese are not standing on the justice side. Idiots were running the country, and they will run for the coming decades without the help of elites. Businessmen all over the world are rushing out of the country, fearing that the 0-COVID will happen again. So the future does not look promising. It feels good to discern the situation. I have to make the right choice at the right moment.

This year I took the postgraduate entrance examination for the second time, and I did pretty well. This September, I decided to cut down some entertainment time and focused on studying. However, the news still brought anxiety. They were always cheerful, that the government protected the people from the virus again, and trade hit another high this year. What did I know? I know that I was forced to stay at home many times to end the spreading of the virus, and eventually got ill and the end of this year, right before the examination.

Before opening, my neighborhood was under lockdown. Max whites took turns working overnights to guard my block, in case of someone what to get out. That was some cold snowy nights. I watched through the window to know how long they can last. The day they decided to open, a sunny day came. Then everyone got infected making all the work those max whites had done in vain.

This year a lot of hypocrites showed themselves who they are. These self-claimed experts discuss military, political, medical treatment, and sports. Beaten by reality, it turns out that the experts are so ignorant, selfish, and arrogant. The media shows fake news about the Bucha massacre and shouted about Nancy Pelosi going to Taiwan. Gladly, A local populist named "Sailei 3min" got banned, who used to spread conspiracy theories about the west. This time he copied a video with a frame of a Chinese untalkable 64 incident. Self-thinking is becoming a topic of the year, sadly, many people still don't have it.

Duolingo is my favorite APP. But it was banned for a few months in China. Because the youth were using it to learn languages. It still doesn't make any sense. Thankfully, I can use it in the autumn, with a version only for mainland China. The second language became less important, The first US movie on screen was "the Batman", and it was in April. On the contrary, it seems that the cultural industry abroad is extremely prosperous. In the middle of the year, whether it is Amazon, HBO, Apple TV, or Disney, excellent works emerged in endlessly. The Snowpiercer, Moon Knight, The Boys, Shining Girls, Severance, The sandman, at the end of this year, The House of Dragon, The Rings of power, Andor, Rick & Morty, and The Crown. Not to mention a lot of Chinese content renowned internationally, Turning Red and Everything Everywhere All At Once.

After the two sessions, the virus went on rage, and then the notorious Shanghai lockdown began. Actually, before Shanghai, there are several cities are in lockdown. But they were small cities like Changchun and Xi'an. Ridiculously, though people were unprepared at first. The success of the Xi'an lockdown got praised, and no one remembered the panic. That forced Shanghai to be closed. The pandemic was severe, and China as a host decided to give up the Asian Cup which would be held in 2023 and was prepared for decades. Media shows information about how badly the westerners were handling the virus, the foreigners also had to face monkeypox. At the end of the year, when FIFA began, Everyone realized that was just a lie.

Too much for the plague, This year is an unexpected exciting one for technology. In June, I took up vim, my laptop is two years old. It seems VScode is a heavy burden. The fan keeps telling me that it can not bear it anymore. This July, a blazingly fast Javascript runtime called Bun came out. Brought out a new language called zig. Different from rust, zig wants to build the language as simple as possible. This August, came up with a new JS framework Astro, a framework of frameworks, in Astro, I can use not only React but also Vue, svelte, and a lot of others. In September I learned OpenGL, realizing that I really should get a new ITX to replace my laptop. So I gave up my 3D printer, and after the exam, I'll get one ITX. This October, when I was surfing Youtube, I found some YouTubers working in VR, and I realized what I wrote in my graduation paper is happening. Right now I am using a quest2 to write this. I was banned from Wechat this October because I talked about a bridge in Beijing. From that day, I began to use iMessage, I am a half Apple-guy now. In December, people were talking about chatGPT, a nonsense AI, but truly amazing.

2022 ends, I don't miss it. But I think 2023 is going to be much worse.
